Understanding MySql

In its simplest definition, MySQL is a relational database management system (RDBMS) based on Structured Query Language (SQL).
This is a lot of acronyms, let's break it down a bit.

Database:

A data is simply a persistent, organized collection of structured data.

RDBMS

A software or service used to create and manage databases based on a relational model. The word relational means that the data
stored in the dataset is organized as tables. Every table related in some way to each other's "primary key" or other "key"
factors. This is very well explained in this article: https://www.ibm.com/topics/relational-databases

SQL

MySQL is just the brandname for one of the most popular RDBMSs software implementations. As we know MySQL uses a client-server
. But how do the client and server communicate. They use a language, specifically called Structured Query Language (SQL).

Many other products such as PostgreSQL, Microsoft SQL server, have the word SQL in them, meaning that the product also uses the
syntax of Structured Query Language (SQL).

How does MySQL work?

MySQL as a Relational Database Management System is made up of the server and the utility programs that help in the administration
of MySQL databases. 

The server handles all database instructions such as creating, editing, and accessing data. It takes and handles all these requests
and communicates over MySQL protocol. The process can be broken down in stages.
	1. MySQL creates a database for storing and manipulating data, defining the relationship of each table.
	2. Clients make requests by making specific statments in SQL
	3. The server will respond to the client with the requested information.

What runs MySQL?

MySQL runs on various platforms from Linux to Windows. It is commonly used as a backend database for prominent websites and forms
an essesntial component of the LAMP stack which includes: Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP.  

More Information:

Here are some resources that explain the technical implementation, and working of, MySQL in more detail than I have covered here:

https://dev.mysql.com/doc/dev/mysql-server/latest/PAGE_SQL_EXECUTION.html 

https://www.w3schools.com/php/php_mysql_intro.asp

Enumarating MySQL

When would you attack MySQL?

MySQL probably wouldn't be the first avenue of attack when pursuing a target. You can try to brute force accounts and passwords
if you lack any other information, but this is a poor avenue to follow.

The Scenario

Typically you would have gained some credentials from enumerating and exploiting other serverices that you can then use with the
MySQL service. For the sake of this scenario we will use that credentials "root:password" that we found from a subdomain in the
server but won't work with ssh so we will attempt to use them with MySQL.

Requirements

You MUST have at least the MySQL Client installed on your system. You can install it with:
	>>> sudo apt install default-mysql-client
Additionally we will use MSF again so make sure you have it.

Alternatives

There is an Nmap script that can be use to enumerate MySQL.

In order to connect to a MySQL server use the command
	>>> mysql -h <host ip> -u <username> -p <password, if left empty a prompt will ask for it>

For this enumeration we will be using the mysql_sql module of MSF. In this MSF module, the option "SQL" is where you can type SQL
commands to execute.

Summary: make sure to have MSF and default-mysql-client. Test credentials. Then use mysql_sql for enumeration, first test the
default "select version()" and then use "show databases"

Expoiting MySQL

Terminology:
	Scheme: in MySQL the word scheme is interchangeable with database. This is important because in other RDBMS, the word scheme
	refers only to part of a data base.

	Hashes: simply put, they are the product of a cryptographic algorithm used to turn an input of variable length into an out-
	put of fixed length.

In MySQL hashes have different uses for example hashes can be used to give an ID to data to create a hash table. This way you can
search through the hash table faster since it is smaller than the original data but still access the original data.

Also hashes are a way to store passwords not in plain text.

MSF Modules used in MySQL exploitation
	1. mysql_schemadump
	2. mysql_hashdump
Other tools used:
	John the Ripper as: >>> john <user:*hash file>

